- After you've worked towards your goals
for about three months,
you'll start to get a sense of whether software development
is the right direction for you.
At this point,
I recommend doing another round of reflection.
Here, it helps to ask yourself a few key questions.
Are you still excited about software development?
Have you been able to stick to your plan
or has your interest faded?
Have an honest conversation with yourself
and decide whether becoming a software developer
is still your goal and you're ready to commit to it further.
It's okay if it's not for you,
because it's a huge mistake to sink your time,
effort, and money into something that isn't a fit
when you could be investing that in something you enjoy.
If you determine you're on the right path,
it's time to start looking ahead
at the approach you'll take to enter a career
as a software developer,
which by now should be one of your long-term goals.
How that goal is achieved is different for everyone,
but just like other goals
you'll be more successful with the plan.
There's going to be a lot more to learn,
there always will be.
But at this point most developers
go in one of three directions.
First, you have the option of continuing to teach yourself
and really you'll be doing that throughout your career.
But in this case, it's your only strategy.
There are many self-taught programmers,
but it's the most difficult approach
and you'll need to overcome some obstacles.
With this strategy,
you're placing a be that your process for learning
is as efficient and effective as formal learning options
like bootcamps or four year degrees.
There are plenty of resources like online courses,
books, and tutorials, you can use to teach yourself.
It's a low cost way to get started as a software developer,
but it's going to require a lot of discipline.
The self-taught route only works
if you can dedicate yourself
to a well-structured learning plan.
So, if you have a little history with projects
not always getting completed,
you might want to take that into consideration.
You'll also need to figure out your edge
or what sets you apart from other job applicants
that have formal academic credentials.
That might be a certification,
some volunteer work,
or contributions you make to an open source project.
I only recommend this strategy
if it's your only option financially,
because it's likely to take more time
than a formal learning approach.
If it takes you three years to land a position
while a bootcamp takes six months,
you've just lost two and a half years of wages.
Lately, coding bootcamps are a popular approach
for those who want to directly enter the field
or make a career transition
without the full cost of a four year degree.
On average, you'll go through about 16 weeks
of intense training that focuses on the technical skills
you'll need to enter the software development field.
These programs normally cost between 10 and $15,000,
which is still a significant financial investment.
Often bootcamps will have established relationships
with certain employers,
this helps graduates land job interviews and positions.
Before you enroll in a bootcamp,
I recommend doing some thorough research
on the integrity of the provider
and how they network with companies in your area.
Just like self-taught programmers,
bootcamp graduates may have trouble landing positions
that have hard requirement for a four year degree.
That's because historically,
the most common path for becoming a software developer
is attending a four year university
majoring in computer or information sciences.
There are a lot of opinions on whether attending a college
is worth taking on the debt,
and lately the there's been a substantial rise
in self-taught developers.
If you take costs out of the equation,
attending a university for computer science
offers some considerable advantages.
In addition to the required courses
for your technical degree,
you'll have the opportunity to schedule elective courses
that you can curate to get the most
from your college experience.
You'll want to be very deliberate
about scheduling these elective courses,
and when possible use them to broaden your technical skills.
For example, if you need credits in humanities,
maybe there's a digital media class
you might take to learn to create digital graphics.
You'll also gain access to events
like career fairs and seminars hosted by your university
that can expose you to new ideas
and develop your professional network.
If you have the opportunity to attend a university,
you'll never get set back
by a degree requirement for a position.
And in my opinion, it provides the path of least resistance
into a software development career.
That's just my opinion,
it doesn't mean college is the right choice for everyone,
that's your personal decision.
Carefully consider and research these three options
and make the best choice for your situation.